src/other_serial/C/README.md, before:

# bale / serial_C
### In one sentence
A *textbook*, C, implementation of the apps in bale.

### The elevator pitch

The bale effort is, first and foremost, a vehicle for discussion for parallel programming productivity.  We have included a simple C version of the apps as a concrete description of the apps written in a familiar language.

This is a self contained directory that does not depend on build process for the rest of bale.

This code is here to help gain a basic understanding of some of the bale apps since the implementations here remove the complexity of parallelism. 

## Nitty Gritty

### Where does it run?
We have been using gcc, but this should run in C environment.

### What is included here:

- README.md  - this file
- Makefile   - simple explicit makefile for all the apps.
- spmat_utils.c/h - the only library or support code.
   It contains the sparse matrix library and few helpful routines for debugging and timing.
- demo_spmat.c - essentially a script used to test the development of spat_utils. It might be good way to familiarize onesself we our version of a compressed row format for a sparse matrix.
- apps:
  - histo.c            -- creates a large histogram (random stores)
  - ig.c               -- a large gather (random loads)
  - randperm.c         -- creates a random permutation
  - transpose_matrix.c -- part of spmat_utils, but interesting in it own right.
  - permute_matrix.c   -- part of spmat_utils, but interesting in it own right.
  - triangle.c         -- counts triangles in a graph
  - toposort.c         -- performs a toposort (matrix) sort on a morally upper triangular matrix
  - sssp.c             -- single source shortest path in a graph
  - unionfind.c        -- uses the union-find data structure to find connected components in a graph
- runall.sh - a test script that runs all applications on default parameters
- Doxyfile - the main file for building the documentation with doxygen
- mainpage.h - The main documentation page.

## Build Instructions
This is meant to be basic C, so hopefully just
typing 'make' will work. However, we do use the argp library from the
GNU standard library. This is usually present by default on most linux
systems. On Mac, you will probably have to install it by hand (one way
to do this is 'brew install argp-standalone') and then mess with your
LD_LIBRARY_PATH and LDFLAGS variables.

## Testing
We are working on a new test script that uses pytest as a harness. To run this test, go to
the apps directory and run
    pytest -s -P=<path/to/bale/binaries> -M <mask>

## Documentation
serial_C is documented using Doxygen. 
Should be able to type make doc

## Discussion

Commit message:

Working on using README.md in doxygen

src/other_serial/C/README.md, after:

# bale / serial_C
### In one sentence
A *textbook*, C, implementation of the apps in bale.

### The elevator pitch

The bale effort is, first and foremost, a vehicle for discussion for parallel programming productivity.  We have included a simple C version of the apps as a concrete description of the apps written in a familiar language.

This is a self contained directory that does not depend on build process for the rest of bale.

This code is here to help gain a basic understanding of some of the bale apps since the implementations here remove the complexity of parallelism. 

## Nitty Gritty

### Where does it run?
We have been using gcc, but this should run in C environment.

### What is included here:

- README.md  - this file
- Makefile   - simple explicit makefile for all the apps.
- spmat_utils.c/h - the only library or support code.
   It contains the sparse matrix library and few helpful routines for debugging and timing.
- demo_spmat.c - essentially a script used to test the development of spat_utils. It might be good way to familiarize onesself we our version of a compressed row format for a sparse matrix.
- apps:
  - histo.c            -- creates a large histogram (random stores) [raw code](./histo.c)
  - ig.c               -- a large gather (random loads)
  - randperm.c         -- creates a random permutation
  - transpose_matrix.c -- part of spmat_utils, but interesting in it own right.
  - permute_matrix.c   -- part of spmat_utils, but interesting in it own right.
  - triangle.c         -- counts triangles in a graph
  - toposort.c         -- performs a toposort (matrix) sort on a morally upper triangular matrix
  - sssp.c             -- single source shortest path in a graph
  - unionfind.c        -- uses the union-find data structure to find connected components in a graph
- runall.sh - a test script that runs all applications on default parameters
- Doxyfile - the main file for building the documentation with doxygen
- mainpage.h - The main documentation page.

## Build Instructions
This is meant to be basic C, so hopefully just
typing 'make' will work. However, we do use the argp library from the
GNU standard library. This is usually present by default on most linux
systems. On Mac, you will probably have to install it by hand (one way
to do this is 'brew install argp-standalone') and then mess with your
LD_LIBRARY_PATH and LDFLAGS variables.

## Testing
For bale 3.0 we have started using pytest for the unit testing.
One can run the test specified in ``tests/test_all.py`` file /the apps directory and run
    pytest -s -P=<path/to/bale/binaries> -M <mask>

## Documentation
serial_C is documented using Doxygen. 
Should be able to type make doc

## Discussion
